meanwhile the UN Secretary General
Antonio guz will visit the city of Rafa
on Saturday to push for a humanitarian
ceasefire in the ongoing Gaza War this
comes after a US sponsored resolution
for a ceasefire failed to pass a un
Security Council vote after it was
blocked by Russia and
China US Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin meets families of Israeli
hostages during his visit to Tel
Aviv the US has consistently supported
Israel in its pursuit of Hamas militants
in Gaza responsible for the October 7th
attacks and in trying to free the
hostages held captive there but as the
conflict in Gaza continues and the
humanitarian crisis for Palestinian
civilians becomes critical the US
Israel's closest Ally is voicing
concern all of them now after his
meeting with Israeli Prime Minister
benam Netanyahu blinkin explained that
the two countries do not see eye to eye
on Israel's planned ground offensive in
the southern city of Rafa a major
military ground operation in Rafa is not
the way to do it uh it risks killing
more civilians it risks uh wreaking
greater Havoc with the provision of
humanitarian assistance it risks further
isolating Israel around the world and
jeopardizing its long-term security and
standing
Netanyahu remained undeterred from his
plans for
Rafa I told blinkin I greatly appreciate
that for over 5 months we've been
standing together in the war against
Hamas and we recognize the need to
evacuate civilians from the war zones
and meet humanitarian
needs but I also said we can't beat
Hamas without going into Rafa and
eliminating the rest of the battalions
there
I told him I hope we'll do it with the
support of the USA But if we have to
we'll do it
alone while blinkin was in Tel Aviv the
US faced another setback in its
diplomacy the UN Security Council failed
to pass a US sponsored resolution
calling for an immediate and sustained
ceasefire hamas's terrorist attacks on
October
7th it was vetoed by Russia and
China as the Muslim holy month of
Ramadan continues men and boys gather
amongst the rubble in Rafa for Friday
prayers their mosque lies in
Ruins People Prayed in the street for
nearly a month after the mosque was
bombed the Israeli occupiers deprived
people of praying in their mosques
during the holy month of Ramadan as you
know Muslims eagerly await this month to
perform their religious duties
especially the night
prayers over 1 million Palestinians fled
to Rafa from other areas of Gaza in
recent months to seek safety they now
find themselves in the middle of
Israel's war against
Hamas let's get reaction now from Shina
low who's from the Norwegian Refugee
Council in Jerusalem welcome to DW um
can I start with your initial thoughts
on hearing this news of the failure of
this us
resolution well we've seen that that
multiple un resolutions uh calling for a
ceasefire though my understanding is
that this one did not explicitly call
for a ceasefire have now failed in the
security Council but we need world
leaders to keep pushing we need there to
be a ceasefire that's the only way to
put an end to the tremendous Devastation
death and destruction that we've seen
all over almost 6 months in Gaza and the
only way for humanitarian agencies such
as the Norwegian Refugee Council and our
partners to be able to scale up Aid to
the to the people of Gaza who
desperately need it as famine is is on
the BR we're on the brink of famine and
the people of Gaza do seem very much to
be um stuck in the middle of uh great
power politics in
this absolutely these are the people who
are losing the most they've been
suffering ing for 6 months of
hostilities there's been uh 32,000
Palestinians who've been killed over the
last 6 months uh more than 60% of
housing in Gaza damaged or destroyed uh
1.1 million people facing acute
starvation levels at this point we it
the situation could not be any more dire
we've been warning for months that this
would what is what would happen so long
as hostilities continued and so long as
as uh not enough Aid was reaching the
people in God
and now we are at this point of of
serious desperation and we need the
world's Community to come together to
push for a ceasefire once in for all
that's the only way that we can even
attempt to try and address the the
tremendous needs quickly Rising on the
ground in Gaza and give us an idea uh
would you please of how much Aid if any
is actually getting through whether uh
by Overland by air or indeed by
sea nowhere near enough a is getting in
uh to Gaza by any of those means I I
just checked the numbers a few minutes
ago and it looked like only fewer than
200 trucks per day continue to enter
Gaza there uh over the last few days we
need a massive scaling up minimum of 500
trucks per day to enter we know that
there have been these alternative uh
routes that have been attempted the the
air drops that we've seen which really
are very expensive not very efficient
have landed in the sea in Israel have
landed and and killed people when
parachutes have failed to deploy they
simply are not an efficient or as
effective way to to reach people in need
as the ground Crossings are in terms of
the the sea corridors there certainly is
potential for that to to scale up uh and
and to have it have a greater impact but
in terms of the popup Port that the
United States has committed to building
that could take uh 30 to 60 days to
construct and the people of Gaza just
simply do not have enough time we need
there to be continued pressure on Israel
not only to operate the current
Crossings at their capacity which which
is which they are falling far short of
but also to open additional Crossings
regularly to allow uh for more Aid to
get in particularly to Northern Gaza
where uh famine is is really looming
thank you so much for joining us and
outlining that so clearly for us to
shine a low from the Norwegian Refugee
Council let's go more from Middle East
analyst shaie rosanes welcome shaie so
we have Anthony blinken there
reiterating the White House message that
a ground incursion into Rafa is a bad
idea and Benjamin Netanyahu says Israel
will go into Rafa with or without us
backing this seems like a new low in
relations between these two allies no
doubt the tensions have never been so
high in the last five and a half months
since October 7th and and both sides are
not shying anyway away from it by now um
uh it almost becomes like a political
tool in each Camp you know and by the
Dem for the Democrats to show that they
are pushing against for Israel and for
nany to show that he's pushing against
the Americans Rafa became a symbol to
what happens in Gaza the way the
Americans see it the Israel insistence
on pushing towards Gaza meaning that
they're not ready to move on to talk
about the greater vision for what
happens to Gaza the day after um they
were hoping that they will give Israel
support for a few months and Israel will
complete its operations and then they'll
be able to look into the prospect of the
Middle East and into you know into
future for the Palestinian people
Palestinian statehood uh as as long as
the Israelis are pushing for for Rafa
they're pushing away from any of that
which is the American Vision and that's
why Rafa is such a big symbol of what's
Happening Now when it comes to the war
in Gaza okay but they are still talking
and several Israeli officials including
the defense minister are due in
Washington next week that's exactly that
is that to pressure the American
pressure I mean the the Israeli defense
minister is there to meet with Lloyd
Austin his counterpart who already said
yesterday he wishes Israel will consider
other plans for Rafa we know that Biden
demanded that nany will send his top uh
people which will be coming to
Washington next week exactly for that
they're trying to get Israel not only to
back off from Rafa but actually opt in
to other solutions for the Palestinians
and for Gaza and Israel is very
reluctant and the question that is being
being asked in Israel is what are the
reasons is that politics that is running
uh uh driving Netanyahu or is it
actually the benefit of the war and the
effort which many feel was justified at
the beginning but now it's kind of lost
its cause the effort to eradicate Hamas
who is a terror organization
acknowledges such by many countries in
the world so this is where we are at now
we know we're five and a half months in
the feeling for the Americans is that
Israel is not quite clearly knowing its
way out out of Gaza and is trying to
help it find its way out and Israel is
you know at least netan keeps pushing to
stay in Gaza and to fight off any of the
um political solutions that the
Americans are offering but until and
unless Israel actually does go into uh
into Rafa then both sides can maintain
their positions and both sides can
appeal to the various sections that
they're trying to appeal to indeed and
this is also partially why the what's on
the line now in Doha the talk we are
seeing for a ceasefire are so important
because that will bring finally some uh
quiet some calm to this very you know
terrible conflict uh what's on the table
is about 40 42 days of a ceasefire that
will allow Israel the Americans of
course Hamas as well and Palestinians
the whole region to regroup and rethink
and maybe find a way for a more
permanent solution for Gaza this is
happening as we speak right now and
hopefully we will know better I mean
Lincoln was cautiously optimistic about
the chances for uh for a deal to be
reached soon hopefully that will maybe
be the way out and some sort of
breakthrough okay thank you for that
Shany DW Middle East analy sh ranes
thank you all right we want to go now to
Tel Aviv I'm joined by Myra zanzan of
the international crisis group she's a
senior analyst focused on Israeli
Palestinian issues and Regional
conflicts it's good to have you with us
Russia and China vetoing this us
sponsored resolution what do you make of
that did did you expect this
vote well I think uh it's it's pretty
clear that the US is trying to at least
appear to be doing something on the
front uh of the Israel Gaza War but uh
in effect the US has not called for a
ceasefire a permanent ceasefire which I
think everybody understands at this
point is necessary because of the
humanitarian catastrophe in Gaza Russia
and China of course have their own
interests uh in in vetoing or abstaining
or going against the US resol
politically but either way the
resolution itself did not call for a
ceasefire without condition which is I
believe what many of the members were
looking for and and the fact that this
us backed resolution failed to pass in
the UN Security Council can Israel now
claim this as a a sort of
Victory well Israel claims plenty of
Victories when it can the icj South
Africa hearing the fact that it didn't
uh actually re call for a ceasefire or
uh uh decide that Israel was actually
committing genocide only the potential
was claimed as a victory by Israel um
you know so Israel could certainly claim
this as a victory Israel still has full
us backing for this War uh and it
continues with its offensive and
continues to make threats as about Rafa
as well uh I want you to take a listen
to what we heard from the Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu what he said today
after meeting with the US Secretary of
State take a
listen I told blink I greatly appreciate
that for over 5 months we've been
standing together in the war against
Hamas and we recognize the need to
evacuate civilians from the war zones
and meet humanitarian
needs but I also said we can't beat
Hamas without going into Rafa and
eliminating the rest of the battalions
there I told him I hope we'll do it with
the support of the USA But if we have to
we'll do it
alone that's quite a statement isn't it
we've got the prime minister saying we
are going into Rafa whether or not the
us our most important Ally likes it what
is this going to do to Israeli us
relations well first of all I think we
need to take into account that um Israel
and nany specifically are purposely
using the threat of Rafa which we've
been hearing about for weeks now um is
an imminent threat when when people
understand I understand that for various
reasons including military recruitment
on the Israeli side and the need need to
move the population out uh 1.4 million
people who are you know internally
displaced in RAF these things would need
to happen before they could go in so
that threat of going in is really a way
to distract from the humanitarian
disaster and the imminent famine that is
happening in North Gaza and could also
reach South Gaza uh so I think this is a
ploy by Netanyahu I think it's very
clear that he he is using this to to
take away attention from the fact that
he understands that he can't do those
things without us approval Israel is
completely dependent on weapons
shipments from the US it's not something
that Israel can do without the
Diplomatic and Military Support of the
us so you say this is a ploy by
Netanyahu then what do you make of these
Israeli officials I understand it's the
defense minister the war cabinet
minister that are traveling next week to
Washington they're going to be talking
about as I understand about a possible
ground operation in Rafa is this where
the real decision is going to be made
and do you see the US convincing Israel
not to move forward on
this uh I think the US has leverage to
to to make this uh to to create a a
ceasefire uh in Gaza and it has chosen
not to do so whether or not real
decisions will be made I'm not sure part
of it to me seems to be performative on
both sides Netanyahu tries to appear
tough he's trying to drag out the war
for his own political survival and the
US gets to show that it's doing
everything it can to stop or to minimize
a Rafa operation so I see this as
largely performative uh obviously I
don't know what's going on behind closed
doors um but I think this is just a way
for Israel to show that it's cooperating
with its uh Ally with its largest
benefactor uh when in reality you know
uh neither side if it really wanted to
is taking the action that it says it
wants to take my zign of the
international crisis group joining us
from Tel Aviv we appreciate your time
and your analysis tonight thank
you